# Data analysis project
This repository contains my experience in data science through analysis of real world data, focussing primarily on data visualization, extraction of relevant insights to answer business queries and story-telling through data visualization. Currently, there are two projects involving these activities: 
1. **Zomato Delhi**: This project is all about analysing various features determining the commercial success of restaurants in Delhi, which have tie-up with Zomato. The dataset is obtained from Kaggle and contains a wide range of restaurant with different specialities, price-range and rating points. Through this project, a broad understanding of certain important features like price range, rating points and the number of restaurants within particular categories is attained.

2. **Air Quality Index** : The second project is focussed on analysis of air quality in various states of India and is developed from scratch. At first the air quality data containing thedifferent pollutant levels in each recording station is extracted from www.opendata.gov.in JSON format. After doing the necessary processing, the data is converted to CSV and a relevant dataframe is prepared. This dataframe however, requires substantial cleaning before any analysis. 
* Firstly, the main values of Air Quality Index(AQI) are missing in this dataset hence, it is separately obtained from https://app.cpcbccr.com/AQI_India/ in XLS format. After converting it to CSV, a dataframe with these AQI values is prepared which is then merged with the initial dataframe through the station id.
* The full dataframe obtained now has all necessary data, but can be further improved to allow more convenient analysus. In particular, the multiple AQI values appearing for each station within a state can make some numerical analysis difficult, and also affects the presentation of the dataframe. As such, all the redundant values(which are not duplicate though) are appropriately removed from the relevant AQI column.
* Following a dedicated effort in the above process, the final dataset prepared is now maximally convenient to analyse as desired. In particular, the goal is to gain an understanding of air quality in different Indian states and make some comparative analysis through the measured pollutant levels.
